Section 3 - Interactive web apps in React - Project Chef Claude

This allows us to use intractive apps, we have built static websites with components, reusable components, props and passing data.

Difference betwee static web pages and dynamic web apps, mostly we have worked on static, read only web apps with no user driven changes to data, like blogs, news sites, recipes, etc.

We are about to understand dynamic web apps, because it has read-write abilities where the user has the ability to change data, are highly interactive, and display our data, examples are a bank website, SaaS products like Airbnb, eCommerce sites, etc.

We are making an app called Chef Claude, where we will put a list of ingredients, and it will tell us a suggested recipe, and we will be able to use either claude ai, or hugging face

Header entry
Form entry

Project overview
The project will have the header and entry to add ingredients to a list, then, there will be a list of ingredients that will be shown. After that there is an area for generating a recipe. This will send a prompt to the AI which will return us a suggested recipe, and a formatted list of ingredients and instructions.

Event listeners are what set apart a static website from a dynamic one, because event listeners allow for interactivity on the website.

Adding event listeners for react elements
/* 
    In JS we would use someElement.addEventListener("click", () => {function}) or add a onclick attribute inside the button.

    In react we do onClick to add a function inside of an element like => onClick={function () { console.log("Clicked") }} or add it to the top and then call it in the onClick function.

    The React documentation for events is useful because it tells us what function to call depending on what we want for the trigger for the event
*/

mapping ingredients... instruction on document

props vs state: props
One major confusions is not understanding props and state.
In React, a prop refers to the properties being passed into a component in order for it to work correctly, similar to how a function receives parameters: "from above". A component receiving props is not allowed to modify those props (they are immutable)

Example function addTwoNumbers(a, b) {
    a = 42 // this messes up the function, dont do this as params are immutable
    return a + b
} -> using parameters to insert any number which is passed down to the function call
addTwoNumbers(1, 2)

example function Navbar(props) {
    props.logoIcon = "some-other-logo.png" // this wont work, dont do it,
}

<Navbar logoIcon="spatula.png" />

State refers to values that are managed by the component, similar to variables declared inside a function. Any time you have changing values that should be saved/displayed, you'll likely be using state.

IN state the view as a function of state:

1. Render - React runs your function and displays whatever gets returned. The function will only be run again if:
    a. it received new props from above or
    b. its internal state values change

2. setState - changing a local, non-state variable doesn't cause React to re-render the component. Changing state with a built-in setState function does.

3. view = function(state) - Thus, when state changes and React re-runs (re-renders) your component, something new gets returned and replaces what used to be on the page.

Example <App /> -> it renders once
<App darkMode={true} /> re renders in dark mode. If changes to false, it Will re-run

Light switch / bulb analogy . If the lightbulb is off, there is no electricity going and the room is dark. When the toggle is on, it changes state and the light will be on and the room will illuminate.

Complex state: Arrays
Up to now we have handled state variables with primitive values. But at times we will deal with arrays and objects. How to useState with them? 

Complex state: objects, the same, but with objects!

React forms
A really common task will be creatins forms in our React projects, like creating a signn up form, and forms have been up a long time in the web.

In the example project, we see that we have a basic form. This form when entered, refreshes the whole page and clears the content, thats default behavior, in this case going to the page requested on the action attribute.

Because this is a PHP link, it puts the query actions in the page URL

Then, JS became the modern way to get the information of a form, we will use it in React, and we can read the documentation on the form HTML component.

The Formdata allows us to handle form entries and convert them to usable data. depending on the type if input stored, it will be handled Differently
in React htmlFor does the same thing that for attrib html label

The button has a quirk to remember, input types can change the html form. If a button has a type of submit inside the form, it will change the types to be a submit button for the form.

When we press a button, it sends the information as a query on the url and refreshes the page, deleting the data on the form. The default method is GET, getting the data from the URL. This works in a los of cases but not a good idea for sensitive information.

When the method is POST, it puts it in a request body, which we wont see in the URL, but it refreshes the page. How to stop this? preventDefault function which prevents the refresh behavior. Also, use Formdata to handle the form inputs

There was a property on HTML called action ad its used to send the finromation to a page or api to be handled. With the function handleSubmit we are able to do this on the client side. There are a number of defaults that we want to implement bt default and React 19 allows this, making the function quite concise and better!

Covering other types of forms is React. Not every single one but the ones we need. Starting with textarea, it has a separate closing tag and its used for larget text entry.

Also the radio is used for selecting elements, preferibly one at a time
Checkbox - selecting multiple elements
Now we tackle select and option elements

Conditional rendering
This is used to render contents when certain criteria is met, as we will do in the Chef Claude project, as we need to display various things when conditions are met
We render parts of a page based on a condition, if true, renders, if false, it wont be even added to the document.

Passing data to components:
Sample of a React app , the square on the top is the parent component and then goes down are the child components and the line represent it is rendering to another component.

                parent- App

        Child 1 - Header        Child 2 - Body

Sub-Child 1 - State for username     Sub Child 2 - Wants data

SubChild 1 has a state, and SubChild 2 needs that state variable too.
Is there a way to pass the state data from subchild 1 to subchild 2?
Nope, we cant do it from side to side, on React, data flows upwards, not to the side. The best way is to pass that state upwards so that both subchild components have access to the state variable and be passed as props.

                parent- App

        Child 1 - Header - State here        Child 2 - Body - Wants data

Sub-Child 1     Sub Child 2 - Can get data

Yet another component like child 2 wants access to the state variable, and we cant go from child to parent, only from parent to child. We bump the state up.

                parent- App, State here

        Child 1 - Header - Access via props        Child 2 - Body - Access

Sub-Child 1     Sub Child 2 - Can get data

