L1 - Walking thru refactors
The instructor changed some info, and here are the updates. One of the updates is adding a categories bar on the 3d models page.

To do List:
Add a category page - filtering by category slugs
Adding category navbar - Clicking an item should take us to the determined page

L2 - Challenge - Add Categories page
Lets add the categories page to the printforge using the route /3d-models/categories/categoryname and be able to search by category

L3 - Adding categories navbar
Adding the navbar to get all the categories and filter them by category. The path for the category page is /3d-models/categories/[categoryName] and the category navbar should be added,clicking the category should like to the category page.

I would put that navigation bar inside of the 3d-models page inside of layout.tsx, because it would be across the 3d-models page

Alright, now we have the navbar, but there is an issue we want to tackle, we want to make the selected link highlighted so we know where we are, Next.js will help us with that.

L4 - Aside - usePathname()
Lets see how to put active links. Its applied when we are on the page. Its not only applying CSS, rather use a Next.js hook called usePathname(), which reads the current pathname and we can have it in a variable. Since this only works on a client component, the hook, we must include the words "use client" on the initial .tsx file. the use client tells next.js that this will be rendered client side. Now we can apply this variable to do some conditional styling to the active component. 

L5 - Quick Link refactors
Some refactors done to printforge project. Meh, I used AI and Will continue my almost the same design. Did it anyway copy pasted

L6 - More about client components
Use client directive. Thats the directive in Javascript, its a way to direct how a file is treated. This is a React Statement. There is a concept in React called Client Boundaries. Josh Comeau made an article talking about it more, which is useful to understand. All components in React by default are server components, if the use client directive is not mentioned. Being a server component means that the code is run on the server and then the result, the markup is sent to the client. Yuo can mark a component with the use client, the code wont be run on the server but the code is run on the browser, the client. When use client is used, a boundary is set where all of the code below the code that is declared as client, is also implicitly declared a client component. This can pose security risks, something to be aware of. So if we want to style the navbar component, its a bit overkill to make all components below that a client component. 

We want to just change the navbar into a client component, and let the other components be rendered to the server. The first option is changing the RootLayout to a client component, but that turns the whole app into a client component, no bueno. We can do more specific scoping. Second option, Change the Navbar into a client component, which makes only the navbar the client component. Third option, change the NavLink into a client component. 

What components we can change to client components? Navbar and NavLink? There is not a right or wrong answer, if we do a Navbar, we need to send it to Navlink, maybe via a prop. If NavLink, we can compare it to the href, we get a lot more extra control by doing Navbar component.

L7 - Challenge, Style active Link,
Styling the active link on the navbar and navlink. Changing the active link to a text-orange-accent.

L8 - Even more on client components.
The options given to client components, we need to clarify that, if we change the root layout to client, its not entirely true that it turns the whole app into client components. Example if 3d models was converted to a client component, we thought every children would be a client component.

Lets clarify. There are 2 ways to turn components into client components. One is any file marked with use client. This will automatically get turned into client component, also, any components that are IMPORTED and RENDERED by a client component are made into client components. When seeing the simplified codebase. 

We thought that by using root layout as client, all the children are client also, but it is a bit nunanced. Lets see by console logging a trick. In JS, if we console log something like window, if it is a server component, it will return undefined, as this is a browser, client component. Likewise, if I console.log module and it is a client component, it will be undefined. 

Since children are passed down as a prop, they kinda bypass the requirement to be a client component, therefore, since they are not imported, they are server components??? Ok got it a little bit now with the console logging.

Only turn the components we need into client components.

L9 - Styling Categories Link on printforge.
Lets style the categories page to include an orange hue on the active link!
There is a small bug where the 3d models page is not highlighted after selecting any category, the fix is to use the startsWith String Method.

L10 - Challenge, category pages
Lets make the category pages work by "filtering" models that have the same category as the selected one. We do this by calling the getModels function and passing an object with the category we want, the slug

L11 - Rendering Strategies intro - Next!!!
Rendering strats by Next.js there are different ones to optimize the aplication. Next.js will handle it by us. Rendering Strategies is when we give our app the power to decide when and where a page's HTML is built. The apps main job is to compile the HTML and send it to the browser. 3 main places and time where this happens. 1. Build-time - when coding the page and running the npm run dev command, the app hot refreshes for us to see the changes done on localhost 3000. 2. When comes time to deploy the app, then we need to build it so that the code is simplified and sent with optimizations, like converting TS to JS. It usually happens 1 time when app is built. Pre rendered once, served from cache, a memory of that HTML file. 2. Another time is request time, when the HTML is rendered on demand and always fresh. Example when someone wants to go to a route that has not been cached then the server will build the HTML upon request and sent it to the client, browser. 3. In browser, the HTML is built at times when the JS loads. Like when React app is sent, first the basic HTML is sent and then the JS code is put on the virtual DOM. IN default, we use server components in Next.js.

Various strategies we will consider are SSG (Static Site Generation), ISR (Incremental Static Regeneration), and SSR(Server side Rendering). SSG is rendered at build time, once. When changes are made, they will not be seen in the built version. It is built on server, when the command "next build" is run. ISR is rendered once at build time, but some pages are then regenerated after a time window, of course *depending on your code. it is rendered on server, in the background when the next request triggers Regeneration. SSR is rendered on every request from the browser, and it will be rendered on server, when a request for that page comes in. We will see more on later lessons.

L12 - Part 2 Rendering strats
Lets look at a decision tree with asterisk* on decision. Questions that decide which strat we use include, Is the page content identical for everyone? Example, a homepage everyone will see might have the same content. If yes, can the content be a little outdated? if yes, we can consider using SSR, meaning the content will be generated once and pretty unlikely to change unless we do it explicitly and build again. Making changes means to rebuild the whole app, in cases like making a new commit and merging it on GitHub. On large sites that might be problematic. Following the questions. If the content cannot be a little outdated, we are inclined to use ISR, the idea being that the page will be originally static generated, but also specifying a time window for the info to be stale, like an hour, a day, a week. etc, like the 3d models we did on the printforge site, we would like to update it every 30 or 60 mins. If a new request comes for a site with ISR strat and the stale time has passed, it will first serve a stale version and then regenerate, so next person gets the new site.

Often in dynamic web apps, the content is not going to be the same for everyone, there will be data specific. IN this case, we will use SSR, you will never display stale information. Everytime a request is made, the site will generate a build on demand and serve the specific site to the specific user. Like calling an API or a database, populating the HTML, and serving the page. Next.js will figure out automatically which rendering strat to use, we just need to write the code and Next.js handles the rest. This is a decision for Next.js, not us!

L13 - part 3 rendering strats
What code affects rendering? If we write code like export const revalidate = 60; or fetch(url, {next : (revalidate: 60)}) Next.js will use a combination of static + ISR, because data can be cached for a while, but should refresh after a specified period of time. 

Another code is fetch(url, {cache: "no-store"}) or Read cookies(), headers(), etc, or export const dynamic = "force-dynamic", Next will use Dynamic SSR, because it needs fresh, on request data. 

Lastly, if we do none of the above, or fetch(url, {cache: "force-cache"}) or export const dynamic = "force-static" we will use Static SSG, because the site is hardcoded and can be frozen at build time.

L14 - Cat Facts SSG pt 1.
We have a project called Cat Facts, and we will see stuff. Learning different strats, in scrimba just install the packages. And running npm run dev, which is next dev. FOr now, its returning a hardcoded fact.

Quick gotcha about site rendering, the most reliable way to see if your page is rendering statically or dynamically is to build and run the production version of your app using the command "npm run build && npm start". The reason why this is useful, we might have seen the overlay of Next.js build tools, the little button on the down left corner, when we run in dev mode, and that tells the route is static or dynamic. Sometimes this button is not reliable.

When built we get this on the terminal -> ○  (Static)   prerendered as static content
ƒ  (Dynamic)  server-rendered on demand

by using npm start, its the same as next start, we start the production version of the app. By using force dynamic, even if its statice prerendered, the force dynamic makied it server rendered on demand.

L15 - Cat Facts adding a fetch
We add a fetch to the function and see how it is being rendered, at least on mine, it is being rendered as static on the first excercise. But it does not change at refresh... hmmm??? does it need to be rendered as dynamic? in dev mode it refreshes... but on build the route is rendered as a static route, we dont get a new cat fact. In Next.js 15, they changed the default fetch so it no longer cache the response from fetch request. Every time a fetch is run, it would refetch instead of caching the response, turn it into a dynamic response, but on the docs, the fetch method differs from build to production automatically, in dev, will refetch but in production, it will make the request one time and cache it, returning the same reponse cached.

Now lets try adding cache : no-store on the fetch method. Well, it returns a dynamic route, and on refresh gets different fact!!!, but on scrimba its still as a static route.... on my local dev machine it works. ON scrimba the web containers dont build dynamic routes like a local machine. in scrimba we might need to force it. using the export. 

L16 - Cat Facts - Structured Play.
Adding a timestamp to the request and playing with it in different ways

Rendering timestamp in:
dev mode -> The same happens as build???
build mode -> ok, when I refresh the page, the timestamp updates the time.

uncommenting line 1:
dev mode -> the same stuff...
build mode -> ummm it updates on my local machine...

At least on my local machine, it stayed the same throughout...

ON scrimba, the instructor... when it builds, the static content is not updating the timestamp... rendered statically. In my machine, the no store functions.

L17 - HTML form submissions are navigation events - next
Here we have a list of cat facts mapped. Rendering strats are not used in printforge right now because we are getting the data from a json file, not a fetch. In the future data will be in a DB and then using that to fetch content.

Now we will focus on search parameters. The ultimate goal being adding a search bar to the printforge page to get results that match the name or description of the file. Lets add a for element to see the results.

When searching, the page refeshes and the url adds up a question mark and the following text -> ?search=testing or if the form action is written, adds a page and the following -> ?formActionName/inputName=textEntered useSearchParams? In React Router, we cans do it elegantly by client side rendering.

Heres the thing, when submitting a form, actually it is a navigation event on our site! we have that query embedded in a URL, and we want to filter the results based on the search term. When doing a serch we are navigating to a new location. 

L18 - catFacts searchParams pt. 1
We seen how we can use a search params in a page, now we need access to those parameters. Next.js allows us to do so with the searchParams promise. searchParams is used for server side rendered pages, and useSearchParams for client side rendered pages. since it is a prmoise we need to use async await, it will return an object with the nae of the search input box, or what we put, and the data entered in that search.

L19 - Cat facts searchParams pt 2
Lets take the query and filter the results. Use cases differ, but this is an example. We can add some attributes, to make the input text better

L20 - Printforge adding a form entry for searching - done!

L21: NextJS form components
We can do improvements on the form using the nextJS form Component. The form element in HTML became official in 95, and it is a navigation event, a full navigation event. Next does client state on the side to optimize search. NextJS uses a form component built on top of the native HTML form element. Using it is importing and using it Form, also giving it an action prop, which matches the HTML form element. This allows us to set the route for the search and process it.

Since we do not want the user to go to another page, we just put "/" in our example app.

L22 - Printforge - Upgrade to NExtJS Form component
Upgrade the NextJS form component to the Form next method... done! This uses progressive enhancement, if thy had a slow internet or JS could not load, the Form will downgrade to the native HTML form element. Cool!

Section 2 over!!!!