L1 - intro to next.js
Next.js is the tool of choice for many agencies and devs due to a variety of factors such as its flexibility and ability to deliver just about any type of digital experience on the web you can think of. IN the past, fullstack devs were few and far, but now its becoming more popular due to the frameworks allowing it.

The project is PrintForge, a website for users to browse and get 3D models and see them. This is the full project for this section of the course. This course will be given by sections, being added regularly. You should have a fundament of HTML, CSS, JS and React to get the most out of this course. Its also good to learn tailwindcss and TS. help stuff blah blah.

L1-2 - Minimal Next.js Setup
Installing Next.js using a minimal setup, following the installation steps on the official website.

L2 - Doing It, already did it!

L3 - Adding a new page to our site
Currently with page.tsx inside home directory, we are showing what appears on the root site (page.com/). Lets add pages with their routes

L4 - Routing in Next.js
Adding new pages to the site, a route is a URL path that maps to a page in our app. We do them in next.js by adding folders and a file called page.jsx/tsx in it. Tha folder needs to be inside the app directory.

Chart of Routing

directory structure, url path/route, description, full URL
app/page.tsx, /, homepage, localhost:3000/
app/about/page.tsx, /about, about page, localhost:3000/about
app/products/page/tsx, /products, products list page, localhost:3000/products

L5 - understanding create-next-app
We will create the printforge project. We will setup it under a more common automated setup using create-next-app@latest
This util was made by next.js team to start a project. it will ask a series of questions, like if we want to use TS, yes, Eslint, yes, and TailwindCSS, yes which is a css processor. Code inside src directory, nope, app router, yes this is a paradigm to create app routes in the directories, pages is an alternative. If we want turbopack, of local yes, or nope if building, change import alias, no.

L6 - Using the create-next-app
npx allows us to use a npm package without having to install it. 

L7 - Scrimba's runner - To be continued!
Before, the challenges could be done directly from next.js, but this time, scrimba introduced a runner function. Idk, I just do it locally.

L8 - create-next-app walkthough on filesystem.
There are a couple files on the app created. Like the app folder, which holds the site and the folders for routes. favicon.ico - icon in browser page tab, globals.css, this is global styles for webpages, like changing stuff for the whole site. Dont start using globals.css for styling, we will use tailwindcss. The public directory, will hold files that will be served as static files. Some icons, now next-env-d.ts holds the types, tsconfig, allows us to change and modify TS behavior, tailwind and postcss allow for using TailwindCSS, package.json configures npm, next.config configures next.js, eslint modifies the linter for code checking, 

L9 - PrintForge Challenge Setup
Lets start printforge, creating the printforge project. Doing the pages for printforge project and deleting some files not needed. After cleaning up the files, we do next challenge for the home page.

L10 - PrintForge Home page
Creating the home page for the printForge Project, using html , ts, and tailwindCSS. Ts types, when we include TS, and doing a types file to hold the types there.
Ye i know I cheated with AI lol.

L11 - Printforge about page
Doing the about page here on the route. Again, AI cheats lol

L12 - Nested Routes
It is common on websites to have nested routes on pages. An example in our project is if we wat to have an our misson page located at website.com/about/mission, the url path is /about/mission, so in the website it would be app/about/mission/page.tsx? yup!, by building the website, we can see the routes created!

L13 - Layouts - pt 1
Lets work on or layout files, when we talk about pages, this is UI that is specific to a single route. We will understand what a layout is. A layout is UI that is shared between multiple pages/routes. This UI is shared between all sites of your project. The page content changes, but the CSS rules willbe shared between all pages. Sometimes, we want a dashboard or navbar to be between all pages. Instead of creating the layout an every page. A page can also have its own layout. 

We can imagine a website that has a header, the page content and the footer, the header and footer will be in all pages, but the page content is different, replacing only the segment we desire and keeping the other ones. 

L14 - Layouts pt 2
Lets look at our layout file in the simple app. The layout page will export a default function called RootLayout, does not matter what is called. But it needs to have children as a parameter because it needs to call all the children components to render the body. The children is where the page components are rendered

Next.js first renders the root component, and inside that it renders the other pages, like if it was a React Component.

<RootLayout>
<Page />
</RootLayout>

This gives us the opportunity to do is to put additional code to put on the layout that will be shared with all the children pages.

The layout we put now on the layout.tsx file, now it can be rendered on every single page, nice!!!

L15 - Printforge header
Adding the header to the layout.tsx page.

L16 - Fonts & images in Next.js
How we deal with fonts and images in Next.js We are using a normal image element, but next.js does some optimizations to images we can take advantage of. 

Starting with fonts. Monsterrat Alternate for headers, Albert sans for text. These are google fonts, and we can install and configure fonts, in the documentation there is a page to check.

To start we can import the font into the layout.tsx file, import { FontName } from next/font/google (WARNING! -> if the font has spaces they should be underscores)

Now, how we import a secondary font? Well, we could use CSS to access the root and setting up global variables, then we maybe can select the element, and pass the variable in CSS. On the configuration object, we can add a variable to set up a var and use it.

Where we added the font into the variable we put classname so it goes everywhere. Now we added the Monsterrat variable to the body component, making the variable we have on the object value accesible on each page.

And we now can apply it on the globals.css in prder to apply it to every header. Then, we have every header with the font. We can also download a font file if needed.

L17 - Optimizing images
We can optimize images using the <Image /> component on Next.js, we pass it with needed properties, width,height, alt, src, classnames, etc.
What are some image optimizations? Auto resize and converto to more eficient formats. Lazy loading, only load when moving into the viewport. Also it prevents layout shift. Scrimbas system dont work, but on local development it does, like I did here. 

Another way to reference the image, we can manually import it, like import (imagename without the parentheses) from (image path w/o parentheses.) When we console log the image, it has the elements in an object. There is a challenge to optimize the inages in scrimba but doing it local so used the Image component from Nwxt to do so!.

L18 - Links in Next.js
We could use the native anchor tag, but next.js optimizes and has its own link, when doing anchor normal tags, it is refreshing the page again. 
By doing the Link component importing it and using it, we can get all benefits from Next.js, like prefetching. Allowing client side navigation, prefetching when link is in view, by hovering the webpage is loaded, you can manually turn it off, also it maintains React states while browsing the page. 

L19 - Applying links to printforge page.

L20 - Using TS in the project - importing them to a types file
We know that if we create a subfolder in the route folder, with a page.tsx file, we get a new route. But that does not stop us from creating folders for different activities. Like putting a types folder, as long as there is no page.tsx, it will never get turned to a route. We will export all types in the file, 

L21 - Aside, Client VS Server Components
We are ready to load the 3d models page, we need to know about client vs server components, seeing how we fetch data. Client components, the code is only run in the browser, the server sends the package and the browser unpacks it and runs it, react will first mount the component and then it must start a fetch request after the component mounts, useEffect and useState are needed to manage the async nature of fetching data.

Now we can use server compnents, the code is only run on the server, while not strictly true, butn to get the point we say this, the data is fetched before rendering, that means no using useEffect or useState, just awaiting the data and using it in our markup. The code is simple, as opposed to React component fetching.

Lets see it in action. If we want to dive deep there is an article called making sense of react server components.
Because the code we put is run on the server, its good to put sensitive data like API keys on the fetch request here. Someone using the site cannot see the API key, because it is server run. Now, if oyu put the code on Github, the API key will leak. You can use an ORM like Prisma to fetch data from a DB.

L22 - Creating the 3d-models page using the getAllModels function. 
If we had data in SQL, we could even do a query and not worry if we have a secure server as the client can not see our queries or edit them.

L23 - Dynamic Routes
We will see dynamic routes being put in our project. Like in a blog, where we want to see all posts, but then access a particular post to get all the details. They will have a slug where there is a page with the particular post with details.

Dynamic routes are applied when we dont know the path ahead of time. Read it from the docs. To do them, we need to create a folder whose name represents what you want the path to contain. Example, id, slug(title of the blogpost with hyphens all lowercase), category, etc. IN next.js, we need to surround the folder name with square brackets, like [id], [slug], [category], etc.

Since our route is /posts/id, we need to put a nested route with square brackets, [id] and page.tsx. Then, we need to use useRouter to get the posts by ID when we click.

In order to get the details of a post for example, we can get the params in the page component to access the dynamic route value. To start, we destructure the params prop inside the React function, therefore telling Next that this is a prop we pass when we have a dynamic page like the one we have. This lets us know what value we have on the parameters on the URL. 

We can see by logging params that it is a Promise object that has an Id, the string that the URL has. We need to await it and the function needs to be an async one. When destructuring and getting the id in a console.log, this can help us get the details of said post.

Very important, we need to fetch the post content we can do that by using the api and getting only the id in the params, also, everything needs to be awaited to be able to return it in the post. At times, we might need to filter the data depending on the API. The property of params is the same as the one called in the variable. 

L24 - Adding details page to PrintForge 3D models section.

L25 - Recap. Done!!!