We will learn what databases are, SQL and NoSQL techniqued, how to develop apps with dbs, managed and hosted dbs, and an intro to SQL project in upcoming lessons
Databases are used in software apps to store, manage and retrieve data.
Storage is persistent, preserved in between user visits and across the app. like usernames and encrypted passwords
dbs can offer a structured way to store data often within tables
different data types can be stored and enforced in a databases
Each db has a schema, which defines the shape of the dara within it.
An example of a db we will do is called Retro Rides, which will be a db of vintage cars in SQL with tables that will hold data like stock, staff, and dealership locations.

2: SQL vs NoSQL
SQL is synonymous with Dbs, Structured Query Language
Sql dbs are relational which means that data stored is interconnected.
There is a strict structure to the data which is organized into tables.

NoSQL dbs are non relational, this means that the data is defined with a looser structure and less strict relationships.
These can be more flexible and allow for less rigid data structure.

Sql is short for Structured Query Language and it is used to store, access and manipulate data within a db.
We write commands, or queries to perform actions on tables within a db. Very popular Language

db tables and relationships are defined by a schema, which is a representation of the columns and types in the table.
Connections are shown between the different db tables.
A table has unique indentifiers and properties like text numbers. Also an entitiy diagram shows relationships from different tables

NoSQL dbs are less structured than SQL dbs. They are more flexible which allows for looser data shapes.
An example is an object in JS or Python. Various types of NoSQL dbs can be used for different types of apps.

One example is MongoDB, which stores document stores, these store data in documents, like JSON where each document represents a record.
Documents can vary in structure, each having different sets of fields. One way of using a db like this is in a CMS (content management system)

Other type of NoSQL db is Redis, which stores data as a collection of key-value pairs which can be anything from a simple string to more complex data structures like arrays or objects.
API's will often use this type of database as they dont rely on relational data.

Other example = Cassandra is a Column Family Stores, which are designed for handling large volumes of data across distributed systems.
Data is stored as columns rather than rows, grouped into column families, and these can be used for time-series dara, logging and event tracking.

A last example, neo4j are dbs that are optimized for representing and querying relationships.
Data is stored in nodes (entities) and edges (relationships) with properties on both.
This system is useful for social networking apps

Differences recapped:

sql | NoSQL

data structure - fixed schema tables | flexible
schema - rigid | schema less or dynamic
scalability - vertical scaleup | horizontal scaleout
query language - sql | varied
use cases - structured data, complex joins | large scale, unstructured or semi-structured data

3: developing with dbs
Apps usually have 3 parts:
1. Frontend - A web browser
2. Backend - Server and an API
3.  Database - our RBDMS such as Postgres DB

There are Various libraries that help for using dbs in our apps, like SQLite or SQLAlchemy.
We will be using simple Node.js with PGLite DB in practice excercises

Other ways to interact with dbs in apps is ORMs, Object Relational Mapping is a method of interacting with databases which allows use of an object oriented approach, rather than directly using SQL queries.
This means that we can write queries in languages like JS or Python as part of an app.
This can have the advantage of developers avoiding to learn complex SQL. This is useful for dev teams where the dbs have limited complexity.
If an app has complex apps and devs need full control over a db, RBDMS is preferible

One example of an ORM is Prisma, whose queries look more like calling methods and use objects to define what info to retrieve
Prisma Query example :
    const user = await prisma.user.findFirst({
        select: (
            email: true,
            name: true,
        ),
    })

4: Managed vs self hosted

Db administration - this is the practice of managing a production db with regards to creating or dropping tables, managing access, and otherwise controlling data.

Managed DB - a managed database is a cloud based solution provided by a 3rd-party provider. This avoids the complexity of managing infrastructure
Managed DB have benefits like flexibility to scale as the db requirements increase, optimizing costs by scaling resources with the size of the DB, and removing the burden of mantaining db security and integrity.

Self hosted DBs are run on infrastructure owned in house by an organization. Usually these will run on a physical server but also a VM or Docker machine
benefits incluce greater custimizabiility in configuration, add custom layers of security for sensitive use cases and industries, and no reliance on 3rd party management

In recap, managed dbs have quick startup and lower overheads, but can be costly and always rely on external management. Self hosted DBs, offer higher flexibility customization and security with lower costs. But an app which is small it can be overkill and expensive to set up and mantaining it.

5: Project intro
Intro about retro rides.using PGLite and building skills writing SQL Queries, not building a fullstack app.

The inventory table has the following fields

id - db id
brand
model
year
price
color
condition - 0 is bad 5 is mint
sold

the PGLite library will run a PostgreSQL db in practice excercises
When we save the project, index.js is run. This creates the DB, runs the query, and logs the output

---------- SECTION 2 ----------

L1 Intro to multiple tables.
We are learning to creating DB tables, primary and foreign keys, column constraints and joining tables, plus challenges.

Inthe previous section, we used a single table, now we will be creating new tables. We will learn to join tables and see data from multiple tables in our inputs.

The new tables we will create are new dealerships that have opened, staff table with employee info, and sold cars in another table.

L2 - Setup
Changes made on project, lets put it here. Index.js the root of project, importing modules

Rather than creating tables, that is done in another file. Another file for inserting data, and so on. The query is then written in query.sql, and the response is in the table.

L3 - Creating Tables
Since there was a great financial year, we opened new dealerships and will add tables, 3 tables will be added, dealerships, which will hold data on each dealership and location, adding a column to cars to see what dealership it is.

2, staff, name and roles of every employee across each dealer, and sold cars, adding a record to this table with the price, date and seller. 

Tables will relate to one another through different properties, creating relationships. Usually, this is done with primary keys, the unique id for each row. There are different types of relationships, one to one one row in a table relatin to anther row on a table, one to many one row relating to many rows in another table, and many to many many rows in a table relate to many rows in another table.

Tables card and sold cars will have a 1 to 1 relationship because each car in either table can only relate to one car in sold_cars. Also, each sold car will relate to one member of staff who sold that car. 

One to many - one dealership relates to many cars, and one dealership relates to many staff. We dont have many to many, but an example is a car parts table where every car has many parts and each part could relate to many cars.

Keys - a primary key is a column with unique identifiers for each row, and a foreign key is a unique identifier which references another table, as an example dealership_id in the cars table will reference the primary key in the dealerships table.

Each column will have a type which defines what kind of data we can insert to that column, and columns can be given constraints which further restrict what we can add to the column, like an example a column constraint that it cant be NULL.

Lets see a mockup of the tables to add, the dealerships table will have 4 columns, 1 - id, will be primary key, 2 - city dealership is located text, 3 - state dealership is located text, established column date dealership opened date type.

We created dealership table lets create staff table, 5 columns, 1 id - serial primary key, dealership_id, integer not null references dealerships(id) <- foreign key, name text not null, and role text not null. Also creating the sold_cars table.

L4 - Populating tables
Lets add dara to the tables, in dealerships table lets add records table. To do that, we create a new sql file and reference that in our main index.js.

Note that, when putting date, a timestamp is added, so that is all the zeroes that are after the date.

Add the staff table data.

L5 - Altering a table
Ocassionally, we want to edit a table data, we do that with the ALTER, like tracking each car. 

L6 - joins
How to join multiple SQL tables together.
We can retrieve data from multiple tables using JOIN clauses, collecting data from each table, joining tables on columns they have in common. Our tables need to have common columns which we can include in our JOIN clause.

There are 4 types of join, Inner join, left join, right join, and full join, each returning a different set of results. All sql joins have 2 sides, A - The table we select from, and B - Table we join with, this will influence the data weĺl retrieve. 

Inner join will return records with matching values in both tables, no null values in either table, left join return all records from table A and matching records from table B, right join the opposite, full join return all records from both tables where there is a match in either table.

L7 - left and right join
Understanding the links between our tables will help us to understand the different types of JOIN we can use in SQL.

When we look at the relationship between tables in the image. cars_id in sold_cars references an id in the cars table, we created this link when defining the sold_cars table. That means that not every row in cars has a match in sold_cars, but all recorda in sold_cars have a match in cars. It will return all the sold_cars table and the matches in cars.

Example - the accountant wants to compare prices of cars weve sold with their original listed price.

using right join will return all results from the right table and any matches in the left table. In this case, not every row in cars has a match in sold_cars, but all records in sold_cars have a match in cars

L8 - Full join, inner join and dropping
inner join returns recorda that have matching values in both tables. Full join returns records where there is a match in either table.

Example - hiring staff but not assigning all to a dealership. fix DB first using the DROP word, DROP allows us to remove tables, columns, and constraints from the DB. Ita a bit like delete.

The seller column in sold_cars references id records from staff. Since we dropped the null constraint, we can have records with null in the seller column of sold_cars. That means not all employees sell cars and some salespeople have not made a sale, staff records dont always match with a record in sold_cars

L9 - Aggregates
Lets learn about aggregates complex stuff, allow us to reduce the column to a single value

L10 - Joining multiple tables

Chaininh join clauses
Examples in query.sql.

---------- SECTION 3 ----------

L1 - Intro to advanced SQL Logic and Conditions
Advanced operators and expressions, like ANY, ALL, EXISTS, CASE

L2 - ANY
in SQL we can use ANY to find a match in a subquery
Examples - Frankie wants to get cars that are more expensive than one ive sold before

Often running the subquery helps us to set up our ANY query

L3 - ALL
The all keyword can be used on subqueries to find all matches in a subquery

L4 - EXISTS
Exists returns true if the subquery returns al least one row from the DB.

L5 - CASE in SELECT - To be continued!