ternary operators

condition ? expression : expression

the ? expression will run whrn value is truthy and the : expression when it is falsy

it can be chained

switch statements- various cases and various code blocks, also can continue and break

object destructuring - extract properties into distinct variables

setTimeout - we have a timeout function like this:

setTimeout(function() {
    console.log("This code executes")
    }, 5000
)

This function its logical to think it will start in 5 seconds. But its not, Why? 
Because of how JS works.

Js is a single threaded, non blocking language
JS has a runtime environment, V8 for example used in Chrome. Js has a heap that handles memory allocation, Also it has a call stack, which can only execute one piece of code at a time in its single thread.

JS has WebAPIs, task queues, and event loops, these are not part of JS but they are helping hands and JS can multitask!

methods like fetching network, Promises, setTimeout and setInterval.

When JS is executed, code follows the following execution

//JS code

console.log("first") - line 1

setTimeout(function...); - line 2

console.log("Third"); - line 3

//End of JS code

//Simplified explanation

line 1 goes to call stack, executes to console, and cleared from call stack
line 2 goes to the stack and gets passed to a WEbAPI where it has a timer, clears from call stack
line 3 goes to stack and passed to console, cleared from call stack
line 2 timer runs out goes to task queue, and the event loop watches the function,
therefore, it returns to the call stack when done and executed function and empty stack

WebAPIs are functionalities provided by the browser and are not a part of JS - examples, DOM manip, data requests, timers, and more

Another example:

//JS code

console.log("first") - line 1

setTimeout(function...); - line 2

mineBitcoin() - line 3

//End of JS code

line 1 goes to stack, executes, and cleared from stack;
line 2 goes to stack, gets handled by WEbAPI,
line 3 goes to stack, its taking its time, and its in stack
line 2 timer finishes, passed to queue
event loop watches stack and mineBitcoin function has not finished
finally finishes, and stack is empty function completes, line 2 goes to stack, and get executed

Now in another hypothtical example, line 2 goes to task queue, but, there is a task a and ask b before it.
the function has to wait for mineBitcoin and both tasks, so its delayed..
If line 2 goes to stack, chaos ensues, because it mergs with function

constructors:

a constructor gives you an object, there are many cases, some are inbuilt and custom

inbuit examples provide objects in various predetermined formats, like Date, Error objects, and objects for each data type.
custom constructors we design ourselved to producr objects for our own specific purposes.