//This works with APIs

Data used in apps is stored in the cloud, APIs allow us to manipulate data from the cloud into our PC
It is a link between the frontend and backend

We will look at API, clients and servers requests and responses, JSON, Urls used to access APIs handling errors, and Promises.

What is an api?

Aplication Programming Interface - it is any tool that helps connect your program wirh someone elses program

Restaurant analogy - in a restaurant you sit at a table, you want to put an order and revieve some food.
In the kitchen there is an econsystem, a workflow of things happening that you are not familiar with.
The documentation of the restaurant is the menu, you look at the menu, and you know what is available,
the middlemen is the waiter, server, this person is a portal to interface with the restaurant and you.

Api Examples:
Getting data from a server - The server hosts an API - exposed endpoints we can access for getting data fromt he server
We dont have acceess to everything, only the things they want us to have.

Prewritten code that does cool stuff
Like the DOM API that allows us to do certain things, we dont know how it works, just call the function and pass the parameter.(BlackBox)
Array MEthods API
3rd party packages have an API.

Quiz answers:

1) What API stands for - Application Programming Interface
2) Describe an API in your own words - well, an API is an interface we can use to communicate with a program that executes certain purpose, like the middlemen. We dont know how it works, but it gives us predefined limited access to functions that add the functionality to a program

A tool that allows our code to talk with another piece of code or program

3) Api i have used? DOM API

Requests and Responses Cycle

A request is when a device asks for a resource (data, image, HTML page, etc.)
It will require a connection to the internet to send a request

A response is the reply to the request
If it went well, it will return the resource we want, but it might return an error example when a device is not authorized

Quiz:

1 - 3 things client might request - HTML page, image, data
2 - what a server does - a server recieves the requests and handles them to respond in various ways
3 - internal server error message code - 500???

JSON - JavaScript Object Notation
JSON looks like a javascript object, keys need to be surrounded in double quotes, values can be any data type JS accepts

simple strings like "hi or true are valid JSON, but usually its an object or array of objects
Pages like jsonlint.com can be used to verify JSON, or the inspect icon in Chrome, Dev tools, Network tab XHR filter
XHR is Ajax requests that are usually JSON, also can do the preview and see the JSON

URLs and Endpoints:

Url is the address where that resource is present and its needed to do a request
The makeup of an url is a base url and the endpoints
Example - scrimba API - Base URL would be https://scrimba.com/api - portion of an url that does not change
Endpoint is the specific resource to retrieve, like /courses, /users, /templates, /resources/challenges. Queries are sent to know what type of resource
Full example -> https://scrimba.com/api/resources/tests?test=typescript

Challenge:

base URL = https://apis.scrimba.com/dog.ceo/api

Endpoints = /breeds/list/all
/breeds/image/random

Take the base url and an endpoint and put it in browser.